“A Version Control System records every change made to code so developers can collaborate safely and recover earlier versions when necessary.”

environments :
 production
 pre prod
 validation
 staging
 dev

why devops use git : “DevOps engineers use Git to version control source code, collaborate with teams, and trigger automated CI/CD pipelines whenever code changes are pushed.”

Then a pipeline starts running automatically:
Developer writes code
→ pushes code to Git repository
→ CI pipeline builds the application
→ automated tests run
→ Docker image is created
→ application is deployed to servers or cloud.

A repository is a storage location where a project's code, files, and their version history are kept and managed.

PR concept : 
rca : root cause analysis

Staging/index area - means after git add file and before git commit file
how staging works in backend : 
     git log(to check commit id) : previous saved logs
     the staging area save the file to git repo by encoded format using commit id that commit id are stored in .git inside that objects having the latest id 
        

alias nagesh="mkdir" 
->Nagesh newfile
 for this we use bashrc.

Git workflow always: edit → add → commit → push
Fix:
git add git_notes.txt
git commit -m "updating git_notes.txt"
git push

Reason:
git add → moves file to staging
git commit → records the change
git push → sends commit to GitHub

Faster shortcut (useful for single file edits)
git commit -am "updating git_notes.txt"

Reason: -a automatically stages modified files (not new files).

COMMANDS :
git status
1. git init : initialize git to folder
2. git add : to untracked to track file/folder
3. git commit -m "new file created" : to save changes of file to git repo {-m for to having a proper control or to track easily}

if author is not configed then :
1. git config --global --edit 
   edit name, mail
   control 0 -> enter -> control x -> enter
2. git commit --amend --reset-author 

4. git push -u origin main :  to push code
5. git pull origin main --allow-unrelated-histories : if existing repo have some files and in local project have updated files including new files also then we use this .


